
SSO

CSAW'18 CTF Qualification - Web (100 pts).

        Description
        TL;DR
        Methology

CSAW’18 CTF Qualification: SSO
Event 	Challenge 	Category 	Points 	Solves
CSAW’18 CTF Qualification 	SSO 	Web 	100 	200
Description

    Don’t you love undocumented APIs

    Be the admin you were always meant to be

    http://web.chal.csaw.io:9000

TL;DR.

This challenge consists in the analysis of an authentication flow based on the OAuth2.0 protocol (see RFC-6749 and RFC-6750).

The task was not that complex, it was only a matter of careful analysis of RFCs in order to solve the challenge.
Methology

By reading the description of this challenge, we are informed that the goal of the challenge will be to impersonate an administrator.

Let’s browse the first web page:


At first glance, the goal of the challenge is to use the OAuth2.0 API in order to gain access to the /protected web page.

By reading some RFCs related to the OAuth2 protocol, we quickly understand the role of the two endpoints:

    /oauth2/authorize: allows the client to make an Authorization Request by passing the following parameters:
        response_type (required): the value must be set to code;
        redirect_uri (required): the absolute URI that will be passed to the redirection endpoint.
    /oauth2/token: allows the client to make an Access Token Request by passing the following parameters:
        grant_type (required): the value must be set to authorization_code;
        code (required): the authorization code received from the authorization server;
        redirect_uri (required): the absolute URI that will be passed to the redirection endpoint.

As mentioned in the comments of the first web page, the OAuth authorization process has not been automated, we will have to manage the flow manually…

Using Burp Suite, let’s check manually the authentication flow process!

First, we need to make the Authorization Request:
.

Ok, let’s grab the authorization code and send the Access Token Request:

We just obtained a JWT access token, let’s analyze it quickly using jwt.io:

Now that we’ve successfully obtained an access token that is required to make a protected resource request, we’ve to gain admin access.

After few tries, we finally understood that the secret entry was a hint to generate a new valid JWT token using the following operation:

HMACSHA256(base64UrlEncode(header) + "." + base64UrlEncode(payload), secret)

Let’s implement this algorithm with Python:

Generate a new JWT:


Now let’s send the final protected resource request:

flag{JsonWebTokensaretheeasieststorage-lessdataoptiononthemarket!theyrelyonsupersecureblockchainlevelencryptionfortheirmethods}

Final flag:

    flag{JsonWebTokensaretheeasieststorage-lessdataoptiononthemarket!theyrelyonsupersecureblockchainlevelencryptionfortheirmethods}


